[Concept Entry] Sklearn linear-regression-analysis (#5729)
Codecademy/docs: content/sklearn/concepts/linear-regression-analysis/linear-regression-analysis.md

---

> Title: 'Linear Regresssion Analysis'

Reviewer: There's an extra 's' in Regression:

```suggestion
Title: 'Linear Regression Analysis'
```

> Description: 'A machine learning technique that involves training a model to predict a dependent variable from one or more independent variables, assuming a linear relationship between them.'

Reviewer: We can simplify this as follows:

```suggestion
Description: 'A machine learning technique used to predict a dependent variable from one or more independent variables, assuming a linear relationship between them.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'Linear Regression'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Scikit-learn'
  - 'Supervised Learning'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/machine-learning'
---

> In sklearn,**Linear Regression Analysis** is a technique for simulating the relationship between a dependent variable and one or more independent variables. In simpler terms, it can use it to predict the value of one variable based on the value of another, assuming a linear relationship between them.

Reviewer: There's a missing space in the first line, and also we can skip the second sentence as it is just repitition.

```suggestion
In sklearn, **Linear Regression Analysis** is a machine learning technique used to predict a dependent variable based on one or more independent variables, assuming a linear relationship.
```

In simple linear regression, we predict the dependent variable `Y` using a single independent variable `X`, fitting the data to a straight line, often called as the `regression line`. The equation for the line is:

$$
Y = \beta_0 + \beta_1 X + \epsilon

> $$

Reviewer: Please explain each parameter with some context.

```

## Example

In this example, the dependent variable `y`is directly proportional to the independent variable `X`, showing a basic linear regression:

```py
# Import required libraries
import numpy as np
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Sample data (Simple Linear Regression)
# X: Independent variable, y: Dependent variable
X = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]).reshape(-1, 1)  # Reshaping to 2D array for sklearn
y = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

# Create the Linear Regression model
model = LinearRegression()

# Fit the model
model.fit(X, y)

# Make predictions
predictions = model.predict(X)

# Output the results
print(f"Intercept (β₀): {model.intercept_}")
print(f"Coefficient (β₁): {model.coef_[0]}")
print(f"Predictions: {predictions}")

# Plot the data and regression line
plt.scatter(X, y, color='red', label='Data Points')
plt.plot(X, predictions, color='green', label='Regression Line')
plt.xlabel('X')
plt.ylabel('y')
plt.title('Simple Linear Regression')
plt.legend()
plt.show()
```

The code outputs the following result:

```shell
Intercept (β₀): 0.0
Coefficient (β₁): 1.0
Predictions: [1. 2. 3. 4. 5.]
```

> ![Simple Linear Regression]

Reviewer: The image description should be more descriptive.

```suggestion
![A scatter plot showing the data points (red dots) and the corresponding regression line (green) representing the simple linear regression model.]
```

(https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/linear-regressin-analysis.png)

## Codebyte Example

```codebyte/python

> 
> import numpy as np
> from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
> 
> # Example data: Hours studied (X) and scores (y)
> X = np.array([[1], [2], [3], [4], [5]])  # Hours studied
> y = np.array([2, 4, 5, 4, 5])  # Scores achieved
> 
> # Create a linear regression model
> model = LinearRegression()
> 
> # Train the model on the data
> model.fit(X, y)
> 
> # Get the model's predictions
> predictions = model.predict(X)
> 
> # Output the results
> print("Intercept (β₀):", model.intercept_)
> print("Coefficient (β₁):", model.coef_[0])
> print("Predictions:", predictions)
> plt.scatter(X, y, color='red', label='Data Points')
> plt.plot(X, predictions, color='green', label='Regression Line')
> plt.xlabel('X')
> plt.ylabel('y')
> plt.title('Simple Linear Regression')
> plt.legend()
> plt.show()
> 

Reviewer: It is missing import for `plt`.

```suggestion
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression

# Example data: Hours studied (X) and scores (y)
X = np.array([[1], [2], [3], [4], [5]])  # Hours studied
y = np.array([2, 4, 5, 4, 5])  # Scores achieved

# Create a linear regression model
model = LinearRegression()

# Train the model on the data
model.fit(X, y)

# Get the model's predictions
predictions = model.predict(X)

# Output the results
print("Intercept (β₀):", model.intercept_)
print("Coefficient (β₁):", model.coef_[0])
print("Predictions:", predictions)
plt.scatter(X, y, color='red', label='Data Points')
plt.plot(X, predictions, color='green', label='Regression Line')
plt.xlabel('X')
plt.ylabel('y')
plt.title('Simple Linear Regression')
plt.legend()
plt.show()

```
